docs: Firebase aggregation analysis document (#1283)
platform-platform/monorepo: metrics/firebase/docs/analysis/02_firebase_metrics_aggregation.md

## Objectives of the analysis

> This section serves as a summary of the proposed analysis.

As Cloud Firestore does not support the aggregation queries we need to analyze existing approaches to provide metrics calculations. Each solution, must be described with theirs pros and cons.

The last section, [Decision](#decision), holds a summary of the analysis and the approach we've chosen.

## Landscape

> Look for existing solutions in the area.

There are a few approaches to get data for the aggregated metrics:
- Load all collection's documents and provide aggregation using the client.
- Aggregate data in the Firestore Cloud Functions using:
  - `transaction`;
  - `FieldValue.increment`;
  - `distributed counter`.

Let's take a closer look at them.

### Loading all documents

At this time, for the aggregated metric `builds per week`, we download all the builds of the project for the last 7 days using Firebase advanced query, count the number of builds, and display the information on the `Metrics` dashboard.

Pros:
- Easy to implement.

Cons:

> - With an increase in the number of builds, the number of writes/reads to/from the database grows that triggers heavy load/price implications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- With an increase in the number of builds, the number of reads from the database grows respectively. It leads to heavy load/price implications.
```
What do you think?

> - Increase time for calculating the aggregation metric.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Increases the time of calculating the aggregation metric.
```
?

#### Firebase transactions

The transaction is a set of read and write operations on one or more documents. Transactions are useful when we want to update a field's value based on its current value, or the value of some other field.

Pros:
- Code runs in the cloud, so the client is less loaded.
- In the case of a concurrent edit, the entire transaction runs again.

Cons:
- There is a maximum count of transaction reruns, that's why some transactions may fail.
- An extra read a field's value before updating.
- Has a maximum writes and time [limits](https://firebase.google.com/docs/firestore/quotas#writes_and_transactions).
- Requires a lot of code to implement a simple logic(e.g.g. counters).

#### FieldValue.increment

The [FieldValue.increment](https://firebase.google.com/docs/reference/js/firebase.firestore.FieldValue#static-increment) method gives the ability to increment (or decrement) numeric values directly in the database.

Keep in mind, that documents are still limited to a [sustained write limit](https://firebase.google.com/docs/firestore/quotas#soft_limits).

Pros:
- Easy to implement.

> - Not much code is required to implement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Requires less code to implement compared to transactions.
```
?

- Provide a solution to prevent concurrent edit problem.

Cons:
- Limited by the document's write limit.

#### Distributed counter

As we've described above, the [FieldValue.increment](#FieldValue.increment) method has a limitation to one write per second per document. If we have a more frequent counter updates, we should create a distributed counter.

It is a document with a subcollection of "shards", and the value of the counter is the sum of the value of the shards. 

To increment the counter, choose a random "shard" and increment the count. To get the total count, query for all "shards" and sum their count fields.

With that, we can increase our write document limit to the count of "shards"(e.g.g if we have 50 shards, that means 50x more writes compare with the simple increment method).

There are certain disadvantages of this approach. With too few shards, some transactions may have to retry before succeeding, which will slow writes. With too many shards, reads become slower and more expensive. Also, as we have a subcollection of "shards" that we must load, so the cost of reading a counter value increases.

Pros:

> - Gives an ability to increase the document write limit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Provides an ability to increase the document write limit.
```
